I've just always
loved the darkroom.
I've loved the process
of getting your hands wet
and that magic of
photography as the image
forms in the developer
and that reaction
to chemistry and light.
So today, we're going
to South San Francisco,
right on the edge of
San Francisco Bay.
And we will be burning
holes in photo paper
using the lens of my camera,
documenting the arc of the sun
as it slowly rises.
The basic concept is I'm
using the lens of the camera
much like you'd use a
magnifying glass to burn a leaf.
I'm taking that principle
and using a camera to do it.
The lens is the magnifying glass
and instead of the dry leaf,
I have a piece of photographic
black and white paper
inside the camera where
the film usually would go.
And then I just do these
long exposures of the sun,
and I burn pieces of paper.
The optics that I use
are--a lot of them
are these military lenses,
some of which are radioactive!
[laughs] And what
they do is they're
exponentially brighter than
traditional lenses for a view
camera.
So they just make the sun
that much more intense.
Only certain kinds of paper
will solarize in a way
where you can really
see the landscape.
So most of my
sun-based work is made
on vintage, old, black and
white photographic paper.
And I'm opening these
old boxes, and it's
like I'm connecting,
in some way,
with the history of
photography on a certain level.
A lot of times, I'm in the same
spot from sunrise to sunset.
Today's exposure will only
take about a couple hours.
And also, we're close to the
equinox so the arc of the sun
is really going to be almost
a 45-degree angle that's
straight.
There's not much
curvature happening.
Because I'm dealing
with silhouettes--
I'm photographing into the sun,
so whatever's in front of me
is going to be backlit.
Have to use a horizon
to explain where I am.
Each piece actually kind of has
a time signature built into it.
You could, if you
figured out where I was,
and you saw the position
of the sun in relationship
to a mountain horizon, you would
know roughly what time of year
that image was made.
By working on this
project, it's kind of
made me reconsider your
existence in the world.
You watch space being
utilized and experienced
for really just small,
short moments of time.
And in the meantime, the sun is
just always rising and setting
and people are
living their lives.
There's something
about that element
of time in our existence and
how we experience the planet.
It's fun to be kind of
in a space in photography
where nobody's
been there before.
Analog photography isn't dead.
There's places to
go we haven't been.